[music] let's start over again this is me hello
in December 2020, I flew to the Hawaiian island of oahu and toured it
up and down there is everything that your heart desires an ocean of waves and surfing volcanoes
whales awesome hiking trails and more
in short, so as not to repeat yourself, look at the release of this island, everything is in
the details of the soil sit short conclusion is bad then this is such a sample in Hawaiian
islands but the case of Hawaii was not limited to one island here very much
inhabited islands and I thought for a long time where they are the stunning island of kauai
[music]
beautiful true but unfortunately now it is completely closed for visiting there is no
if you enter there is another interesting island not how but it will not be possible to see not
in time to species not even after to species because this island is basically closed
public case with them while i even show you
nothing since the video from this island is extremely difficult to find on the Internet.
the unofficial name of the forbidden island is almost impossible to get here on
they and he do not have shops for roads, cars or telephone services
but about 200 people live here, these are indigenous Hawaiians who almost never
contacts with the outside world imagine this still exists today
America it would be very interesting to look at this island unfortunately
it is simply impossible to get in shorter, as it turned out, I had very little choice and
it was of course made by [music]
you will not believe, but in order for the sound of you to be gone, the island I had to do again
coffee test it was the fastest most painless to the kind test ever and now
guess how much it cost me 50 100 no 314 dollars 14 cents in the past
times for that kind of money it was possible to fly in Turkey on the front, in general, this
was the most expensive trip in the whole history of my solo travels and I decided
make it even more expensive [music]
I understand that this car is probably too cool for me, but it's not so much mine
whim how much production is necessary
ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the big island as you probably already
guessed from the name this is the largest island of the entire Hawaiian archipelago and
besides, he is the youngest, we will pass all his interesting places but
while a little rest in general rest long trips very
an important thing especially when being away from home you don't have
there are troubling questions such as the tap is flowing for the house for me, or
wiring and sho there in general with an apartment, but there is one proven tool that
will save you from such worries it is called ajax ajax
this is a professional wireless security system that I have been doing for another year
so one and a half ago I installed my studio here and I can tell you that this is very
convenient and very cool thing which, in principle, me and your attitude to
the safety of your belongings, this system can be installed anywhere
in the office in the apartment in the house in the store and in his absence with the help of just
one application to monitor everything at once and I will send a notification if somewhere
burst the pipe, a fire will start or someone will try to get through the door to you
or through the window if you install the machine is a motion sensor with a camera then
after the alarm you will receive a series of photos to quickly assess the situation
is it a burglar or just a cleaning lady my favorite feature is management
sockets using the phone and they can not only be turned off remotely
but also programming to turn on at a certain time is very cool and well,
the main acquisition for owners of a fresh repair is this leakage sensor
elix protect you can install a ligament solenoid valve during the repair phase
littered about that ax and in the event of a flood, at least the Hawaiians cut off the water from the mobile
applications follow the link in the description to order a starter kit
ajax and receive a leakage sensor whether x protect a gift and give them conceived
say I rented myself a room in a guest house in
in the town of hilo on the eastern part of the island you want a joke I just appear
settles in this half a mistress does not ask and you feel an earthquake
I say what winter 3 he says well, like this afternoon 3 6 points
our windows shook and this happens here on the big island quite
often in 2017, this happened every
day 2018, there was a strong eruption of the volcano Kilauea, one of the
the most active volcanoes on the planet until 2018, it erupted continuously for
35 years old but now this volcano is sleeping and in it
the crater formed a small lake so that the earthquake that occurred during the day
was somewhat strange, but the owner of the guesthouse, Diana, assured me that it was
complete nonsense and this happens to
but let's not talk about alkanes for now, it's better I'll tell you about the place in which
settled in this guest house a rather interesting party gathered my neighbor
room to improve my health to get my dose of vitamins arrived
here by car from Alaska. and I understand him very well in big
sharp all year round the abundance of different fruits that grow right on your
backyard and every day the hostess for breakfast rolled a huge plate out of
oranges, bananas in pairs and something else I have not identified
but it is very tasty to warn their grandmother, she says the granddaughter died in the garden
fresh rationed narva for breakfast about the same on the big island
the only problem with this town is the strong humidity, the wind blows here from
the sides of the ocean are clouds and as a result, it rains almost constantly
so the only option to see something was to leave Hilo that I
actually made by the way rainbows on the big island probably even more than
for Allah in winter to come to the big island is
most of all because there are about ten climatic zones, that is, even if in
one part of the island and pouring rain on the other one hundred percent street
now a few words directly about the island
it is formed by the top of 5 large shield volcanoes and it can be very roughly said that
the big island is one hefty mountain sticking out of
ocean so all the roads here go down to the water and when you go by car and
this is of course very beautiful by the way, one more point that needs to be mentioned
This is that in Hawaii, billboards are banned everywhere.
adds a few points to the beauty of any road you take
you move as nothing interferes with the view when it comes to roads
then I found a couple of cool routes here that go right through
local jungle the feeling of driving is like driving through a greenhouse due to
a large amount of precipitation on the western part of the island, about three of them fall
meters a year with greenery here everything is in perfect order as well as with waterfalls but local
the highlight is still not waterfalls, but beaches with black sand for example punalu
beach is one of the most famous black beaches
and not only in Hawaii, but in general in the world, he is constantly included in all sorts of ratings
along with the big beach, which has already been seen with you in Iceland, but unlike
Islamic beach where you can swim only in a wetsuit in Hawaiian
swim I don’t want sand that covers everything
from volcanic minerals and lava fragments and since it is really black this
the beach heats up in the sun more than usual than the locals enjoy
resident Hawaiian green turtles who are surrounded by butterflies sunbathe
specially designated places in general in Hawaii you can swim in
surrounded by turtles but on this beach they are so lazy that they do not swim a
just drifting in coastal waters just like me in life
one of the most beautiful points of the southern part of the island is perhaps the valley
vape oh but not everything is so easy with her
located below and to get to it you need to go down the old and very
steep road with an average slope of 25 degrees, you can call here
only on off-road vehicles on ordinary sedans, spu is strictly prohibited but for this
i took a full natural jeep to go down this slope to be honest
a little dumb at night to do in the valley as you understand, you can go down and
on foot but this is not our method all that will happen next
called the magic of cinema, it will seem to you that this is a completely ordinary road, but
Believe me, she is very, very cool, both literally and figuratively before
medium condé forces 25 degrees but in some areas
it reaches as much as 45 and this very specifically fills the horizon, add here more
the fact that the road is very narrow and you have to skip transport every now and then
which goes up in general it was a very exciting ride
by the way, this is the steepest road in the usa and on some sections
she's the coolest famous baldwin street with new zealand's coolest streets in the world
in the final section, this road to the valley drops 250 meters in height less than
for 1 kilometer of the route, in general, you go down rather quickly, and when
you get downstairs you understand why jack was needed here
[music]
but all this effort is definitely worth it
here [music]
not
this is what the viper valley looks like, these rocks rise more than 600 meters and
the valley is home to the highest waterfall in hawaii, sickly falls, the water falls here
from 300 meters high, the viper valley is a sacred site in Hawaiian history and
never home to thousands of indigenous Hawaiians who grew taro plants
now about 100 people live here, but taro plantations are still in place
[music] after Darina Viper I returned to the town
chilo but heelas piled robust so it was decided to move to another
part of the island is here as it is to Allah very much
abrupt climate change, you first drive rain and then into fog and then sky
brightens and you see the sun again and all this in less than half an hour the road that
leads to another part of the island passes between the two highest volcanoes
the ender is running up here a great height is very windy so we do not waste time
and we go down for another 40 minutes and we are with you on the western
parts of a large island, the sun almost always shines here and therefore in
the car suddenly appeared unnecessary parts
now this car is at least a little more like a microbe the main city is this
part of the island is called kona, I made plans for it, but it turned out that
almost in vain, firstly, the local landscapes can hardly be called
a delight for the eyes around almost only one lava and several beaches
true with real white sand, which is rare on the island, however, a few
interesting things I still found here the first coffee in my life I couldn't porridge
to think that in America they make coffee because it's America, then everything turns out to be
they still do yes, this is such a surprise leg life grows coffee and all because of a very
interesting combination of climate here and a hefty mountain on the horizon is a volcano
its name in Hawaiian sounds like a line from a song by the band Lyapis Trubetskoy
wa la lai here it is very clear that on
coast con and great weather and sunny and it rains on the mountain that is
the climate on the slope of the volcano is more humid and these are good conditions for growing coffee
which is what the locals use to grow one hundred percent Hawaiian coffee
the second interesting story is directly related to the city of kona
the fact is that every year probably the most famous championship is held here in
the world of triathlon called ironman iron man then perhaps not
knowing this size it is a race that includes almost 4 kilometers of swimming
one hundred and eight kilometers on a bike and a marathon distance in running and important
say that all these disciplines go one after another, that is, all this happens in
one day the ironman is considered one of the most
difficult one-day competitions in and around the world has long been formed
a certain kui if suddenly you have friends a triathlete does not just have a friend
which runs the ironman blank otherwise you should know that it is completely shifted
in fact, people, that is, there is even such
saying that a triathlete at home says this to a family but in a good way in general
when there is a district all the streets are packed with people because
a huge amount of support comes and is absolutely amazing
energy I have not only heard, I have never seen it and this year how
you understand the exchange that takes place here in October was also canceled
due to the coronavirus epidemic, unfortunately, this is where my story about horses ends
look turned out to be practically nothing, so we move on to your
the island, as well as on wah, I had several interesting
very unexpected meetings with my acquaintances, and by the way, it seemed to me
here I have a bank of springs in my hands, so I decided to introduce a new heading
she is called an acquaintance who stepped in hawaii, we do not know how
quite by accident a scanner or with a friend of mine growing up for installation in Kiev and he
straight noble traveler traveled more countries even than I traveled rostik
that 13 countries and he is a great example of how you can travel from not very
big budget and travel is always very budget as far as I understand and
I can put under the bridge, but I also have such a format on and
usually there three days hardcore one glamor three days you go with a tent somewhere sleeping
it is not clear where then for a day or two you are resting in some hotel
ler bingley decently that is, it's not even a question of money, absolutely this is the format
knowledge of the place, that is, you yourself do not understand that one thing is a page in a hotel
it's another matter to become on couchsurfing to immediately understand the culture from the inside, that is
my principle of travel is to stop being a tourist just from the ladder
the plane in the new place is very cool, so we take this quote on
arms growth invited me to a rather unusual place this
a kind of cross between a Balinese retreat and a community of enlightened people who
live here doing yoga spiritual practices or are not on
self-sufficiency as you understand most of the vegetarians here, so with
nutritional problems do not arise especially besides here it is really very
beautifully right on the territory you can feed the peacocks lizards and get
luli from geese who are here as a security service
one of the residents of this community, Igor, showed us his home and you only
look at this house in the jungle in all this he made with his own hands and in
the house was found a large number of musical instruments including even
Slavic a little later it turned out that almost everyone I met in this retreat
speak Russian and in general Andy ran over a rather large Russian-speaking community
to understand the reasons for all this, I asked for a visit to the bathtub which
lives near con and he built a big house here and his family is also not
little wife and five children please tell me
I'm just 10 why there is such a large Russian-speaking community here
running for I think this is what is cheaper here the rent was cheaper and the house in general
buy it was possible to keep a member wahu or small well how
there is land here you can here some proof of the phone to an expensive place
Kaunas in having a small town and a shtamba is more expensive on average somewhere around 300 thousand
plot of land plot of land thousand here is our plot 1 a car mod we bought for 300
that on the south on the common vetom city an acre of land is the same as mine will cost
15 thousand seriously, but the prices went up and it was possible to buy for 5000 why
so cheap because there is nothing there just a piece of wowa basis
another of the big reasons why it's not cheap there is lava zoom they have
it is considered highways lava zones remember this term in the future it will come in handy
if again a volcano then they can flood most of all, then they do not give it more interesting
at home many banks do not give loans.She is at home because highways
but the next day I went to see the area I was talking about
ivan this is how the settlement looks like india on a big island here really
ocean view but the good news ends there
before the ointment builds directly on the lava that once went down the slopes of the volcano
mauna loa and despite the potential danger they continue to build here
the hope that the eruption will no longer be as long as the area is lucky but lucky
on the big island, unfortunately, not everyone, to show this I came to
the area called Leilani states visually it seems that this is the most
usual area but it is not quite usual and now you will understand why
this once beautiful village now in places resembles the underworld many
roads or dead ends pass further
forbidden from afar it seems that some hills begin there but this is not
all the hills are craters and volcanic cracks that have formed here in
as a result of the eruption of volcano Kilauea in 2018, all these waste heaps grew
right in the middle of the streets of Laylani estates huge swathes of the area
were flooded with lava despite the fact that enough had passed
a lot of time underground here it is still hot and the park that currency is met
a vivid reminder of this and now the most interesting in lilani states is still
people live and plots are still sold here
to understand what it is like to live in ailani pinworms, imagine what you have in the back
the courtyard next to the pool has its own small
a volcano that can erupt at any time
this is how people live here we get it now when we are here I want you
we looked at the footage that was filmed there are two slopes of the year ago
This footage was shot by Brian Lauri from a helicopter at the end of May 2018 at
the territory of the settlement of Lilani and the states formed two dozen volcanic
cracks that were filled with lava all around the most famous crack number eight
which was located on luana street produced a huge fountain of lava
hitting 100 meters up this molten mass descended down to
moving the ocean at an average speed of 74 meters
for an hour she burned the roads, trees there, but in general, everything that came across on the way
peak moments this area suffered about 400 earthquakes in 24 hours
most of Taiwan's states were wiped out
200 houses but fortunately no one died
during my trip to the big island, I met with Alexey Lyosha
one of those who lost their home here is the road he used to drive every day
now it ends in long black moscow
[music]
this belief
Lyosha's family for the first time in a long time came to see the place where
once stood their house
[music]
it is almost impossible to determine its exact location now everything
covered with a thick layer of solidified lava we have not climbed there yet we bought land and we
did not know that this is chapter 1 chapter 2 head of zones van in english i am so head of zone 1
this means that under the ground, lava always flows directly into the ocean, we did not know this
what does it mean in the flowerpot 1st why here
the plot was cheaper than other places because such nature is so beautiful
and as cheaply as not to buy and then it would be when
Zhilova flowed, we understood what amazon is one, it means any moment
can you go to the land and take everything, well, I think it was worth the risk we are not we are not
we regret nothing that we bought it here how long we lived here we bought in
in the fourteenth year of the eighteenth the volcano took all
if you forget about these black melts for a second, then the place is really
very beautiful to the ocean just 7 minutes by car children also liked hot
the sources were of a range so I think it was worth it we we were building
and we had a very large living room kitchen strap toilet and a large awning
we were also built on bought material, the purpose of the loop was in debt, we left at that time
when we were in the con, we had a universelle woman with a sphere, the graph needed them
and when we went there to rest and on the news we saw that there are words
started and when we realized that we could pick up some things and we
when they returned to lowered another couple to pick up things and then to one of the
these times, the police just water but all these services drove us out of there
because the crack began on the road and the cracks began to grow more and more they
good glass in another place, but not yet flowed around us, and when to put these things but
cracks grow, they evacuated us, they did not allow us to return anything
pick up and did not see any more merit and did not see it again on the 17th, we found out
that the house was already covered, it was hard for my wife to tell because she was
still had some hope that it would still remain
it is worth adding that Lyosha Vera bought a new house, although he is also in
the zone of potential damage of the volcano Kilauea of ​​this vazon 3 is not a word zone
1 that is, the new amazon magazine has all the lava zones here, it's just that it's less sickly here
this city is all lava zones 3 so we are kind of exposed but not as before
Lyosha test me on the beach, I did not like to spend time with the whole family
but now it bears little resemblance to the beach that was here before May 2018 in order to
it was clearer how this place looked before the eruption, just look at Google
the map has not been updated and it is very clear there that there was a real beach
there was a special place for launching the boat and now, due to the eruption
Kilauea volcano 2018, the landscape of the island has changed forever
for this reason, it is easy to calculate the exact area began in da
impossible because she is constantly changing for the same reason says this
the only US state whose territory is slowly but surely increasing
and all because of the eruptions that were and are likely to occur in
near future barge on the big island active
volcanoes here will continue to appear such black rocks black
the beach that a person will try somehow
adapt for yourself, but it turned out that my story with alkanes on a large
the island on this did not end the next morning on December 21, 2020 I
I just lie in bed, open a news site and see it
[applause] I was located yesterday at 10 pm Lent
very tired but 10-30 there was an earthquake of 4 points and right now there started
erupting a volcano for locals is probably usually the case, but I'm just shocked
I am suppliers that did not manage to be here at this very moment shorter than a leg in
hands have to go along the path and saw this huge cloud that was visible
the state of many kilometers means the next story is this volcano it
called kilauea it's a local celebrity because here
did business before this but in 2017 he did not show any signs of activity
that is, I was going to tell the real one that I had arrived and, as it were, no
activity did not live in some kind of lava it is impossible to remove and here I am on you for now
I don’t understand if I can get to the national park, they will come to us sooner too
in all, it should not be closed to visitors
but how less should all be seen by their own
eyes in general, the story develops live on both Yandex and
to my surprise, the volcano park was not closed, I met several
rangers but got inside without any problems and was among the first to come here
morning [music]
clouds of volcanic gas were hanging over the parking lot and this is what I saw
from the observation deck at the crater rear [music]
hello this is your predator from plant and on top dushkin straight from the scene I'm like
that I missed everything because everything happened at night here inside the crater
there was water that mixed with glory, it turned out to be an explosion like this all this
looks like
on my arrival at the site already worked TV crew of a well-known channel
here I met Brian Lauri as a professional volcanic photographer
who photographed all the eruptions of volcano Kilauea since 91 Brian
logit site lava peak where you can see photos of battles on
the big island and there are more than a thousand
expects deduction of the element to the floor muzzle from the crater of the volcano Kilauea
huge about a kilometer in diameter and the encoder is even larger in some places
it reaches a width of 2 and a half miles, which is about four kilometers all
this is the result and the many images that continuously occurred here in
in recent years, Kilauea is a shield volcano; visually, it is very different from
volcano in a conical shape, which we are used to seeing as the famous
volcanoes and guatemala [music]
flag is capable of erupting several times a day, throwing out lava and
volcanic bombs shield volcanoes can't show this
show, but they have their own advantages, for example, you can look into the crater
volcano this is how the crater of Kilauea looked a few days after the eruption
the huge black mass below is a lava lake more than 100 meters deep.
fills and will continue to fill with lava from
two volcanic cracks in the crater in February 2021, the depth of this lake
has already reached 216 meters and it will continue to grow
in short, what is happening now is a great success, everyone tells me that I am
damn lucky but in general I actually came to this national park by
for one big reason, because his example can be used to explain how in general
appeared speak and now if you do not mind
a little bit of dialogue and a big stop where we are now
the volcanic island is the second largest in the world only Iceland is larger than it
over there in the corner of priceline I once told a big issue if that
look so volcanic islands appear thanks to the volcano oni sochi
appears where there are some sulfur pride on this map, these joints are highlighted
in dark blue, just along this border pass the so-called
pacific ring of fire is 328 out of 500 40 of all active
There are many volcanoes on earth and they are far from this zone.
in the center of the lithospheric plates, how did they appear, the fact is that
in the center of the Pacific lithospheric plate is the so-called Hawaiian
hot. if very roughly then this is a huge mass of magma that rises
to the surface of the earth, it is a high temperature furnace and smelted
Hawaiian islands and the principle of operation is similar to this night light, which is popularly
called a lava lamp, incandescent magma rises from the core
surface lithospheric plates burning tandoor and creates volcanoes here
hot. here is the pacific lithospheric plates
hot. does not move anywhere on stands still the plate moves and with the help of this
hotspot on this plate is formed by islands
if you look at the map, you can see the trajectory along which the Hawaiian
hotspot burned hawaii on the lithospheric plate of the island located
one after another kind of chain and the last as the youngest is a big island
the process of its formation is happening right now in front of our eyes there
In the crater of Kilauea volcano, building materials rise to the surface of the earth
which will increase the area of ​​the island therefore volcanoes, although they cause
evil to man, but at the same time they do great geological deeds, but let's return to
the first site is a lot of tourists now, in fact, there is nothing yet
happens, I think that the right decision would be to come here in the evening and
So ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Sunset Evening Kilauea Show here at
How many times are extra low than during the day and the lake illuminates the smoke from the crater and from the side
it seems that this is such a gateway to the underworld
in the evening of the lookout, hundreds of tourists gathered and everyone naturally needs
there was a photo with a bow even though you seem to be on
a safe distance and this thing is, well, far away, but it all looks like at night
straight as sinister as possible I can only imagine that
saw the people who came here first after the eruption here it was straight
real devilish fishing, I decided to make a little hack what to see
another point because there is not enough parking for everyone, but our quality
Americans are the ultimate handsome men, everything is beautifully sorted out here
parking attendants found parking spaces in general by professionals but most importantly
hayko time is heaven in principle and light is not needed
because his king from the volcano illuminates non-being, the principle can be seen where
these
while padga you will be a hot spot that feeds the volcano and they will
continue to grow but over time the Pacific plate that moves
move these islands farther from the hearth and they begin to cool down and collapse and how
consequence to dive into the ocean under its own weight and we have
about 10 million years to see them because after that
period here in this place most likely there will be no islands
but 10 million years is not such a short time, so I hope that all
did so for this whole story as a large island but one final
chord sun set of a beautiful place naturally with a place I have long been
the actual part was determined for the sake of this place and I flew to the big one for everything
for this we need warm clothes, an all-wheel drive car and as much as possible
more oxygen drove
it's time to tell where we are going our goal is this peak
on the horizon it is not only the highest peak
Hawaiian islands but also the highest mountain on our planet
if you count the height from the ocean floor, it is called mauna-kea
and as you might have guessed, this is also the shield volcano mauna-kea is not
only the highest mountain on the harbor but the place you are there is probably the most
world famous astronomical observatory
it is located at an altitude of more than four kilometers above sea level
therefore, in order to get there, it is imperative to make the installation shorter than this
the mountain is so high that in order to go there to the top
it is necessary to acclimatize here at an altitude of 2800 meters and this process
will be done by everyone who goes up there, even scientists who work on mauna-kea for
acclimatization here for good you need to spend at least an hour I neglected
to check these standards here for 10 minutes for which subsequently the network paid for
in fact, everything is serious enough since at the top there is an observatory on
the entrance is a ranger who asks you where are you from to record all your
contact details because the number of places on the top is limited therefore
in fact, I was so early and arrived one more nuance to the top of the start only on
four-wheel drive cars, but this question was decided at the very beginning of his
travel and now about the important and the roads to mauna kea
[music]
this road is just dastish fantastish mauna kea so high that the clouds and
your problems remain somewhere down there and you see with the feeling that you are conquering
some kind of new peak for myself damn, I cannot convey in words how beautiful it is
[music]
[music] not bad, I'll say so in a couple of hours
climb to 4200 meters almost from sea level
unit nuance is that there was hilo plus 27
and here on mauna-kea + 6 so let's get warm
and let's see what's what's here, so we are on mauna-kea here
the observatory of the same name which has a total of 13
telescopes belonging to 11 different countries to create very briefly why
the disk you built right here, well, first of all, on mauna kea, it is always practically
the weather is always good we will repent by learning the altitude and the clouds are usually lower
us secondly, there is a very clean atmosphere, that is, remoteness
civilization the air is very clean 3 there is no light pollution I am in this
will tell you lived in australia 2 4 here very low humidity and very good so
called 100 magical vision here they say turbulence is shorter if briefly
this is almost an ideal place for observing the starry sky in general in
the world, and besides ideal conditions for astronomy, it is also
and a very beautiful place as it is the highest mountain in Hawaii and the mountains as
usually this is a sacred place for locals, then the locals are naturally very
they rebel strongly that there is some kind of construction going on here, especially after
of how they decided to build here on mauna kea
kente telescope 30-meter telescope in the world's largest
in general, the wild catavasia began, the Hawaiians stood up to protect the mountain
sort out the campground walked with banners for not even fit
Jason Momoa who hails from here gets beaten in general while this is
the telescope was suspended, I do not know what it has to do only with the offensive
local residents, either from the fact that money is needed for it
very, very much as for the maintenance of other telescopes
these high-tech machines with mirror diameters from 1 to 25 meters
requires constant cooling to very low temperatures and operation 1
a telescope a year can cost tens of millions of dollars telescopes for
mauna kea looks extremely futuristic and there are even celebrities among them
for example telescopes keck yes that's the real name so astronomers too
It turns out that key card telescopes have long been considered the largest in
the world, but then they were outstripped by a large telescope in the Canary Islands.
Konstantin Batygin works in one of these observatories who you may know
from the issue here I'm talking about Konstantin Batygin and, in fact, this person is one of
co-authors of theories about the 9th planet Kostya works on
Japanese telescope subaru but during filming he was at home
at home, so we talked via video link, these few everyday issues I spent
on the mountain and about two o'clock and I was forced to go down because I
physically it was very difficult to be like you are the people that I ask you to spend there
well a lot of time how do you deal with miners
and is it possible for me to cope and accustomed to all this means the next process we
first we climb 10,000 feet from where we went in fact and where is this center
for visors you have to sleep there and only after 48 hours can we go we can
in fact, I always have a problem with driving around the third hour
for 1 first night it's not yes they just kind of stay tired local
we give up, that is, when trivial things that need to be done on a telescope like
press the up button twice then press enter i forget how many times
pressed and I just completely shut off the brain then the first couple of nights this
on oxygen but then get used to just say
here the clock is just basic for people who do not understand at all, including
me, what discoveries were made with the help of the telescope located on
milk, in principle, there are a lot of them, for example
Belev prize this year was given to a group of people who worked on
andj gates galaxy center bills professor she used just like
when as soon as he was still then completely Polish from the young and she used
to prove that there is a super massive black hole at the center of the galaxy
while building and maintaining these telescopes costs billions
dollars and they may never pay off
they will pay off what to call they will pay off in something that is difficult
to convert currency to look for a job I will get it because we
there they found something, any of this is precisely from the category of us knowledge that
very, very really important and they really like said even they are out of shape I forget
as the chunks said but they are useful they are useful and at the same time they are absolutely useless
the results of investments that were buried here in 11 countries, we are unlikely to be able to
touch but perhaps knowledge is obtained and in these observatories there was once a way of life
to our descendants, so this is a long-term investment of oxygen kapets as not
it's very difficult for me to speak, but to be honest, I just excited you because
that I dreamed of getting to this place for ten years since I watched films
about astrophysics and about the Kek observatory in general, now what will happen is what I do
waited a long time for the sun set on mauna kea and then did not take pictures and the starry sky
[music]
a man going down is rising I'm wildly cold and spinning very much
head due to altitude sickness but they also do not give
here for tourists to stay after sunset because in America if this headlight is in
general light pollution, but in fact, below from under and we
of course now we will stop there and see what the starry sky looks like above
mauna kea forgive me for this slurred speech without oxygen was well, right at all
bad, but as soon as I went downstairs, the camera became much easier.
set it remains now only to wait in the case of astrophotography find out usually
it takes long enough to make these short videos I had to
wait about two hours but the results were
far from ideal in the first place, not everything was good in terms of shooting conditions, but during
second, as Kostya said on the mountain, I was a little dull, but something interesting
I still managed to capture a look at the lower left corner you will find out
This is our old friend, the volcano Kilauea, illuminates the clouds with its crater
which reflect the bright light of lava the idea with astrophotography was actually here
failed a little because firstly, the moon shines brightly in the sky, and secondly
the car is constantly driving there is light and the air temperature, to be honest, is up to 34
degrees so not super comfortable so let's see how it looks
peak fullness at night
such a starry sky above the summit that night and unfortunately did not see it, but here
sunset on mauna kea was definitely shortlisted for the most memorable of all
time before I have my final say on Hawaii very
short ad i finally got my own
merchandise if you want to know what it means and where to buy it all see the link in
description and now what really is everything here will be very simple, I think that
you saw everything yourself and of course if there is an opportunity at least once in your life
fly to hawaii this is one hundred percent you need to do here there is a lot
unique things but I actually travel the islands with a different thought about
it may seem very seditious modern varnish of this period, but I
nevertheless, I voiced a very thought that it’s how easy it was to travel, the meaning is
that when I was preparing for the release I read the history of the Hawaiian Islands in general people
still there a hundred years ago, maybe even a little more there were already travelers currency
what to get to Hawaii will need to be carried out on a ship
on the ship for several months people could not know there get infected die along the way
well, in general, it was wildly difficult now even in such a remote place as hawaii
really the other end of the world, well, a day and a half, maybe you can fly and
in a day to actually manage and it's just like that compared to the fact that
it was a hundred years ago and now the traveler has everything a hotel
there is a gps navigator no maps are needed in general, again I will say again now this
contradictory phrase we just get it right never before traveling
it was not as easy as in our time, even despite the coronavirus and naturally
having such opportunities, it is advisable not to use in general travel
she still stands [music]